# Loan_Approval-Classification 

On this project i tried to predict if the request of a person for a loan will be approved or not. First, i performed data preprocessing on the dataset (checking for missing values,handling the outliers), for example i detected that the range of the values regarding the age of the people was [0,144], so i had to handle this outliers. Next, i transformed the categorical features to numerical using the methods (label encoding & one-hot encoding), this create a new data frame with more features than the initial but all features had now numeric type. After that, i applied the normalization method so all features  have the same range of values between [0,1]. After the data preprocessing, i check the correlation between the different features and the target class. The data were ready to apply machine learning algorithms. I split the data into train and test set.
First i applied the Logistic Regresion algorithm, with default values on it's parameters and the accuracy of the algorithm was 90%. I tried to imporove the accuracy of the model using the method of GridSearch, in order to find the best values for the parameters of the algorithm, but it had also the same result accuracy 90%.
Second algorithm that i applied was the XG-Boost, this algorithm had higher accuracy equal to 94% !!!.
Finally, i create a neural network with 2 hidden layers and performed 92% accuracy, i applied the method of the EarlyStopping to prevent my model from overfitting. I tried several methods to improve the performance of the model by adding more layers, more filters on the layers but all methods had the same results.
Note: I applied the PCA method, to reduce the dimensions of the features, by setting a threshold of 95%, this had as a result to reduce the number of the features, but when i applied the above algorthms, all had lower accuracy.
